Open source software is a type of computer software in which source code is
released under the license in which the copyright holder grants users the right to study,
change and distribute the software to anyone for any purpose.
A very common example would be Linux.
Commercial software is a software that is build by
a person or group to be sold at a price.
Depending on software and price,
source code may or may not be bought.
Windows is a good example of commercial software.
Google is poster child of open source world.
They are building community around it.
It helps them with innovation.
Some of the best minds work and contribute to
your tech and you do not even have to pay them.
How involved you are with open source also influences your brand image.
Google also has a vision statement around open source.
Google believes that open source is good for everyone.
By being open and freely available,
it enables and encourages collaboration and the development of technology,
solving real world problems.
There are good reasons for companies to have commercial solutions.
If we talk about Microsoft Azure,
it has 10,000 IP patents.
What this would mean,
if you are using Azure Solutions,
a professional hacker might not know the inter cases of how it might work.
This could be an added advantage and might provide you a security blanket.
Open source are available to anyone while you
need resources to buy a world class software solution.
It helps in creating barriers for
new competitors to come and quickly replicate what you are doing.
Azure is well aware of disadvantage that they have.
They say "Reduce risk,
innovate with confidence, and operate with freedom in the Cloud.
Azure IP Advantage provides
the industry's most comprehensive protection against intellectual property risks. "
When to use open source.
If the wheel has already been invented,
when it is well supported by community,
when total cost of ownership is low,
when it aligns with what your brand stands
for and when in need source code not just the application.
When to use commercial?
When total cost of ownership is high for open source,
if security is a big concern,
if it is easier to adapt,
if it is an industry standard solution like spreadsheet that everybody uses,
when you need a reliable support.